_drafts/2015-05-28-Learning more from Retrospectives.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Learning More from Retrospectives
--- 

How do you perform retrospectives? Have you had retrospectives where these three questions are always asked in round robin style?
- What has been positive? 
- What has been negative? 
- Is there anything we want improve? 

Here are some tips that I have found to be effective when it comes to learning more from retrospectives, and even having some fun at the same time.

###(!!TRENGER ET BRA NAVN PÅ "Follow a Pattern")
When you perform a retrospective there is usually a pattern you can follow. 
Have an _Introduction_, this is when you can warm up and come into the retrospective mentality. This is usually done with a short 5 minute or less activity.

Then you can go into the _information gathering_ phase. Here you want to collect all problems, obstacles, give creds, and positive feedbacks. This is usually done by having the team members writing post-its that can be presented when the are finished.

The last phase is the _grouping and discussion_ phase. This is when you want to group the information gatheres from the previous phase, and find the most important points you want to follow up and resolve. When you discuss the points you want to end up with something that actively can be done to keep the positive habits or to fix the problems and obstacles. To make sure that follow up is done, you can assign it to someone and put a due date on it. 


###Change up the activities

Commit message:

added change up activities part

_drafts/2015-05-28-Learning more from Retrospectives.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Learning More from Retrospectives
--- 

How do you perform retrospectives? Have you had retrospectives where these three questions are always asked in round robin style?
- What has been positive? 
- What has been negative? 
- Is there anything we want improve? 

Here are some tips that I have found to be effective when it comes to learning more from retrospectives, and even having some fun at the same time.

###Try to Follow this general pattern
When you perform a retrospective there is usually a pattern you can follow. 
- Introduction
- Information gathering
- Grouping and discussion
- conclusion

Have an _Introduction_ to come into the come into the retrospective mentality. This is usually done with a short 5 minute or less activity.

If you have had an retrospective that resulted in some follow ups, you can address them now. You should check if the team is satisfied and regard them as completed. If not you should save them for the _grouping and discussion_ phase.

Then you can go into the _information gathering_ phase. Here you want to collect all problems, obstacles, give creds, and positive feedbacks. This is usually done by having the team members writing post-its that can be presented when the are finished.

The last phase is the _grouping and discussion_ phase. This is when you want to group the information gatheres from the previous phase, and find the most important points you want to follow up and resolve. When you discuss the points you want to end up with something that actively can be done to keep the positive habits or to fix the problems and obstacles. To make sure that follow up is done, you can assign it to someone and put a due date on it. 

I usually end the retrospective with having a _conclusion_. Here you might want to evaluate the retrospective, maybe give compliments to each other, or perhaps ask what the team has learnt.

###Change up the activities
Changing up the routines and activities is recommended. Why should you do something else if the team is happy with one specific routine? Well, it's just that, the routine. You don't want to get into a routine. 
I believe that if you do the same thing over and over again, you will get into a mental routine. Ending up with beeing stuck and unable to improve your team further. 

Having different activities lets the team look at themselves differently. You will probably end up with finding other views on the team, both negative and positive. Which in turn will lead to other follow ups.
